why should veganism be treated like a
religion because it's a deeply held
belief it's a passion and I believe in
not making others suffer the most
vulnerable members of our society which
is farm animals should be treated with
respect I think I can believe in that
and yet not call it a religion 100 I
love all animals eel God I believe that
a religion isn't so much about a God
it's about respecting others juhi
sweetbreads okay so now piers is trying
to trap her by asking her if she eats
bread I'm not actually dressed up like a
chef I'm dressed up like someone who
dropped out of vegan baking school
because the baking school wasn't vegan
and who now uses the chef's jacket as
like the equivalent to a housecoat just
to keep warm here and there so this is
not this is not a cooking video
do not worry we're not gonna cook
anything in this in this here tape oh we
got some legit idiocy from Ryan and
Angie over a happy healthy vegan and not
just idiocy but hypocrisy and moreover
it's hypocrisy about hypocrisy so let's
jump to really briefly here the tape
Piers Morgan and happy healthy vegan
dodging the issue what do you say when
meat eaters point out to you that in the
production of vegan food you also do
kill animals your whether in the process
of wheat manufacture and bread making
put literally billions of insects get
murdered
did he just say that billions of insects
get murdered
billions of insects get murdered
[Music]
piers as an insect activist people will
often bring up like well what about
bacteria or ants or you know other bugs
are all beings equal to each other in
that sense all the insects not the
bacteria
I dig most insects um I don't kill any
but I'm starting to appreciate more and
more of them as the years go by
in fact our backyard right now is full
of grasshoppers and crickets in fact
this morning when I left Detroit there
was a grasshopper I swear this big on
the garage and Eric and I were out there
and we were just face-to-face and all
for about 15 minutes looking at this
beautiful creature
check out my animal intelligence I say
by the way on my website there are no
contradictions here you guys are walking
contradictions you guys are walking
graveyards of murdered animals you claim
that your holy and compassionate and
then you commit atrocities and commit
evil acts every single day so everybody
who's not vegan needs to look in the
mirror and start analyzing themselves
instead of the millions in the world I
mean this is these are sacred enemies
that have been murdered so you can eat
break oh yeah
insects crushing insects while farming
we've visited this argument many times
it's a version of the combine harvester
argument I didn't see billions of deers
get sucked in doing kilobyte combine
harvesters don't get many ideas yeah be
consistent actually no living creature
should ever be killed so that you can
eat food bread leads to the mass murder
mmm this is an issue I dealt with from
day one on this channel and it's an
issue that does challenge the definition
of veganism and it's an issue that
you're not going to in a sincere and
down-to-earth way wriggle your way out
of by just demanding that the other side
of the argument respect your perspective
even if your worst perspective is deeply
incoherent self contradictory illogical
and wrong now you
probably have heard the term straw man
before - straw man an argument unless he
spent many hours I don't know in
conversation with Isaac over at ask
yourselves Channel um you might not have
heard the term steel man
so steel Manning an argument is where I
take someone's argument and let's
present it in terms that are more
difficult to to assail well the idea of
thousands of deplorable six-limbed
insects that don't have emotional
expressions on their face and don't have
intelligence informs that you may find
easy to appreciate or sympathise with
the deaths of all these insects to
produce your daily bread may not tug at
your heartstrings but maybe if we switch
to another species like the gopher like
Richardson's ground squirrel squirrel
maybe that would Richardson's ground
squirrel as it happens of mention this a
million times the channel there has been
fascinating research done on their level
of intelligence on the fact that believe
it or not they communicate with spoken
language their spoken language we've
broken it down to some extent through
computational linguistics and they
actually do have complex abstract
thoughts memories commands they give to
one another etc etc they spend their
lives popping up and down through what
we call gopher holes I guess technically
they're ground squirrel holes and they
talk they talk to one another they're at
a moderate distance in one of their
social gregarious animals with complex
communication they're intelligent
they're cute they make facial
expressions that show their emotions in
a way we can relate to hash tag
speciesism every single day in canada
people kill them they kill them so they
can produce wheat they killed them just
so their lawn is a flat green lying on
the horizon instead of having melons and
lumps in it they are killed as vermin
throughout the prairies of Canada and I
assume the adjacent part of the United
States at least places like North Dakota
and South Dakota I don't know the full
range of this animal's habitat and guess
what if you actually adopt the position
that the life of an animal is sacred if
you take the position that killing an
animal is an immoral act and is contrary
to your religion then you are a
hypocrite Piers Morgan is right and
vegans are wrong and I'm vegan but from
day one on this channel I was saying hey
I don't just want to approach veganism
in a way that makes me look good
that makes vegans look good I want to
actually be good I'm not worried about
vegans seeming crazy I'm worried about
us actually being crazy holding deeply
incoherent and self contradictory
beliefs and statements of principle and
that's what this comes down here so yeah
Piers Morgan may be an idiot but guess
what even an idiot can beat you in this
debate where the other side is trying to
argue for veganism being recognized and
respected as a religion why because they
really want that level of respect Piers
Morgan's comeback is well if your
position is killing animals is wrong you
kill animals every day to produce vegan
food ah also whether it's wheat for
bread soybeans for the tofu whatever
example you want too what's the vegans
reaction well you see this is why you
need to respect us as a religion even if
what we're saying is wrong and self
contradictory to you politically right
okay
there's more than one way to approach
veganism there is more than one way to
define veganism I've had so much angry
hate mail from people writing in to me
saying no no no there's only one
definition of veganism well guess what
some vegans admit to themselves they
have to kill rats and cockroaches and
insects and that that wouldn't even end
in a hypothetical future where vegans
take over the government and start
writing legislation to get rid of things
like factory farming and people wearing
fur coats and people wearing leather
shoes even if we have all that
legislation we're still gonna have a
conflict with wild animals like bears
breaking down the doors of our houses
trying to eat our garbage you're trying
to eat the food out of our fridge or
whatever it is they can do we're still
gonna have conflicts with cockroaches
bedbugs mosquitos rats
and yeah it's actually really hard it's
really challenging for vegans to answer
the question of what would you do about
groundhogs about the ground squirrel oh
of these kinds of intelligent animals
that are currently treated like vermin
just so we can produce bread you know
what it's not that hard if you can just
be honest with yourself and on others
you can come up with an answer you can
say you know what this is something we
need to take a serious responsibility
for we need to have a step-by-step
approach
the same way that we as a society
step-by-step have tried to go from being
millions of people smoking millions of
cigarettes every day to minimizing and
controlling cigarettes and educating
people and coming up with crazy
technologies like nicotine chewing gum
and the nicotine patch and come up with
all these methods to help people quit we
have this huge conspiracy of millions of
people trying step-by-step to help us
make the transition to being a
tobacco-free society at nicotine free
society you know what I think we can
make the transition to being a society
that minimizes and eventually eliminates
you know the extermination of Gophers as
barbaric I mean this is medieval having
to go out and kill these mammals just
just to grow wheat there are gonna be
better techniques that can be rolled out
step by step especially at government's
make it a priority and start researching
it if we stop pretending this is nothing
and we of all people as vegans we should
be the people willing to admit this is
something this matters this is an
externality or impact this is a side
effect of our diets we should try to
take control over we should try to take
responsibility for even if here and now
in making the decision to buy a bag of
bread you can't because currently there
is no no kill bread but as soon as one
brand comes out imagine what a
difference that is in the marketplace
imagine when all of a sudden there's one
bag of soybeans that says no kill the
same way that you know they sell tuna
with no no dolphins killed on the label
you could have bags of soybeans tell you
hey guess what no vermin were killed in
making these soybeans or no vermin were
killed in making this wheat
technologically we can put a man on the
moon okay people know if we put our
minds to it if there was some priority
to it if there was some research and
development put into it we could live in
a world where animals like Gophers live
on habitat reservations on wildlife
preservation areas in national parks and
where they don't live on farms where we
draw lines on a map and we separate
these things and we have some kind of
fencing in effect that keeps the Gophers
over there or it keeps the wheat farming
over here it's not impossible it's not
an impossible pipe dream but it's gonna
start with people including vegans
meeting there's a problem and there's
going to be a step-by-step process
leading to a solution over centuries and
you're never going to get there with
this kind of ridiculous self
contradictory religious mentality bread
leads to the mass mail we're to kill no
no Papa shame it's a shame on you two
happy healthy vegan when the other side
is right admit that they're right
examine the contradictions in your own
presuppositions and move forward that's
the way to build a movement and this
this dogmatic pseudo religious [ __ ]
this is not
[Music]